# Are DReps going to end up liable? #

I am a DRep, I am also on the TSC, I also have 40+ years experience in high tech, and I am concerned.

## Some background first ##

I have watched several organisations and people get burnt by not understanding
what they are committing themselves to by their actions.

I am _not_ a lawyer - have I had 'training' on basic contract law? Yes, I made
sure that I knew the basics when I left academia to form a start-up in 1999.

I have also been involved in many community activities - being on a PTA,
helping form a community ISP, etc. The relevance of this will become clearer
below.

## Contracts and Unincorporated Associations  ##

### How is a contract formed? ###

My 'training' said:

  1. an offer
  2. an acceptance
  3. a consideration (needed in UK law, I see, via the joys of Wikipedia, that in other
     jurisprudence frameworks not required).


The
[discussions](https://legal.thomsonreuters.com/blog/the-principles-of-contract-law/#:~:text=Several%20basic%20elements%20must%20be,terms%20outlined%20in%20the%20contract.)
talk about both _parties_ - so who are the parties in the proposed smart contract.

One is clearly going to be the supplier of the work, the other? Well it is going
to be that entity which accepted that offer of that work. Who is that?

## Could DReps be forming "unincorporated association"s ##

Some references - [UK Government official
advice](https://www.gov.uk/unincorporated-associations), [Thompson Reuters
Practical
Law](https://uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com/Glossary/UKPracticalLaw/I25017386e8db11e398db8b09b4f043e0?transitionType=Default&contextData=(ST.Default)&firstPage=true).

It is remarkably easy to form an _unincorporated association_, there is not
necessarily any paperwork involved. Just the act of "[coming] together for a
reason other than to make a profit" forms one, and brings with it [joint and
several liability](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Joint_and_several_liability).

The members of an unincorporated association (sometimes referred to as "members
clubs"), do not create a legal entity but they "..are personally responsible for
any debts and contractual obligations." and they "[do] not have limited
liability".

So, agreeing with your neighbours to have a [street
party](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/your-guide-to-organising-a-street-party/your-guide-to-organising-a-street-party?utm_source=chatgpt.com)
creates one of these. So if things go wrong, say someone injured and they sue,
_and_ you did not get any [insurance](https://www.streetparty.org.uk/insurance/)
then you really hope that the public liability part of your domestic insurance
covers things.

This has not happened to me - but has happened around me, not good outcomes for
those involved. (You don't have to believe me, I asked ChatGPT 'Any examples of
large liabilities against an unincorporated association' and got a bunch of interesting responses.)

## How do these two concepts relate? ##

The point is that when a contract is formed responsibilities and liabilities flow both ways.

The contract being on-chain doesn't change that nature, it actually _irrefutably_
evidences those that  _came together for a reason_.

What about the liabilities? This is where the recent "pivot" seems very
misjudged.

In going directly to an on-chain contract it creates a direct
connection between the DReps and the suppliers.

Up to the pivot point, the flow of contractual liabilities was clear. The process
being followed was that of creating a community consensus (involving the DReps
and others) and tasking Intersect (using committees like the Technical Steering
Committee) to enter into contracts with suppliers to perform the work.

The DReps would agree with the bounds on the budget, but there was no 'offer and
acceptance' that the DReps were involved with. Intersect, with its ably to
perform both the administrative and technical aspects of the negotiations would be
in the position to take on the 'contracting'.

Now, it seems to me that the role that DReps are taking has removed the
protection of that indirection.

## In the brave new world of crpto why does this apply to me? ##

Assume you are thinking, I'm not in the UK - this doesn't apply to me

  1. What is the legal jurisdiction? Maybe it might be set by the contract but
     it is the courts themselves that end up deciding.
  2. Its only crpto, what is the worse that could happen?

Well there are several things in which countries see themselves has having
[extraterritorial
reach](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Extraterritorial_jurisdiction). Some countries
assert general jurisdiction over crimes committed against their citizens. US (and
others) treat competition and anti-trust law this way. Imagine a situation
where [modern slavery](https://www.gov.uk/government/collections/modern-slavery)
was alleged (all those policies are in place for something in your
organisation). Don't even think about a situation where it was deemed that
contract was being used for money laundering or supporting terrorism.

If the courts decided the DReps, by voting yes, formed an unincorporated
association and by directly 'accepting the offer' formed a contract. The joint
and several liability means .... _I'll let you start filling in the blanks here_.

## Can't we just force these liabilities on the contract administrator? ##

I think the answer to that is the word _administrator_. They may be a legal
entity, but they are being given _direction_; they are [acting as an
agent](https://uk.practicallaw.thomsonreuters.com/w-005-7364?transitionType=Default&contextData=(sc.Default)&firstPage=true#:~:text=A%20person%20who%20is%20recognised,of%20another%20person%2C%20the%20principal.)
for the DReps that assented to the contract. Read the first paragraph of the
reference above; it is the _principals_ (the unincorporated association in this
case) who still hold the liabilities.
