# Introduction #

_this is a copy (with minor changes, reformatting and some additional
clarifications) of the official submission [which is available to members
here](https://members.intersectmbo.org/dashboard/voting/219538567392)._

I have been a professional Computer Scientist for over 40 years, 20 of those in
academia and, since 2003, running a technical consultancy engaged in leading
edge developments in Telecommunications, distributed networking and, for the
last 7+ years, Cardano.

My technical expertise lies in the design and development of large-scale
distributed systems, with a specific focus on their scalability, resilience, and
reliability. Additionally, I conduct research and publish in the field of formal
approaches to capturing and predicting system performance. My research
emphasises the design of systems that can scale effectively while minimising
long-term costs.

Since 2017, I have contributed to several technical teams and am honoured that
they have adopted the concepts from my research work into their daily practices.
I believe that the adoption of formal approaches to the technical concerns of
those teams has contributed to the unparalleled robustness of the operation of
the Cardano chain that we observe today.

My employer is Preditable Network Solutions Limited (PNSol), it is also a member of CDEC.

Neither I nor PNSol has a) ever received any Intersect or Cardano funding or
grant; b) applying for any such funding at this time.

# Current relationship with TSC #

I have been a voting member of the committee since it was formed.

# Intersect membership participation #

I am the chair of the Network Parameters Advisory Group, part of the Parameter
Committee. I have been a member of the Technical Steering Committee since it was
formed.

# Experiences with Cardano #

I have helped design the data diffusion (data network) functionality, I have
also contributed to the structuring and methodologies used by the performance
and tracing team. In various design discussions, I am frequently requested to
assume the role of “devils advocate” drawing upon my experience to promote the
“defensive design in depth” philosophy used in Cardano. Such an approach is
crucial in light of Cardano’s decentralised nature.

# Why should the community support me with their vote? #

I accepted the nomination to the TSC as I saw the need to move the technical
stewardship of Cardano into the wider community. That motivation is still my
main driving force. If elected I would work with the other members of the TSC to
continue along the path it has followed over the last 6+ months. In that time
the TSC has worked with Intersect secretariat to create the evaluation criteria
so that projects can be assessed as to their technical merit. That assessment
being performed "without fear or favour" working with the proposers to create
the best possible technical case for their proposals, helping ensure good
progress during their execution and working with them as the results are
generated so that they can be presented back to the community. The TSC is not
"picking winners", it is ensuring sound technical progress and engaging with the
community where strategic choices (such as is now needed with Peras) arise. The
TSC is about the responsible stewardship of the core of the Cardano
functionality. To effectively fulfil this role, it requires the corresponding
authority. The TSC needs to possess the ability to curate and negotiate
technical matters, form opinions on resource allocation and deliverables, and,
in extreme cases, the power to decline engagement with projects that are
technically unsound or fail to demonstrate value for the requested funding. I
believe that without such effective technical oversight Cardano will not grow
into its full potential.

# Experience in developing Cardano Core #

As I have stated, I have had significant input into the design and
implementation of the 'system' aspects of Cardano (data diffusion, the node
architecture etc). I have also contributed to the initial design of Hydra and,
most recently, the evaluation of the Peras and Leios designs.

# Experience in writing/evaluating complex blockchain proposals #

In addition to the experience of working on the TSC to create contracts with
suppliers, I have contributed to several of the papers arising from Cardano
development. I have created technical work plans and other material for around
six collaborative EU proposals (both while in academia and since outside), run
my organisations technical activities as well as been the overall technical
authority.

# Additional experience #

I have lead participation in UK framework agreements and projects arising from
them, I have also lead and participated in several UK sponsored research and
development grants. I have held a C-level position in a 25 person + startup and
run a self-funded research business for the last 20+ years.
